Worker queue documentation (#963)
astronomer/docs: astro/configure-deployment-resources.md

After you create an Astro Deployment, you can modify its resource settings to make sure that your tasks have the CPU and memory required to complete successfully.

## Worker queues

A worker is responsible for executing tasks, which are first scheduled and queued by the scheduler. On Astro, task execution is powered by the [Celery executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/celery.html) with [KEDA](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/the-keda-autoscaler). Each worker is a Kubernetes Pod that is hosted within a Kubernetes node in your Astro cluster.

> Not all tasks have the same requirements. On Astro, you can create optimized execution environments for different types of tasks by using worker queues. Worker queues are a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in your Deployment. For a given worker queue, you can configure the type and size of its workers, which determines how much CPU and memory your tasks can consume. You can also configure settings related to worker autoscaling behavior.

Author: ```suggestion
Not all tasks have the same requirements. On Astro, you can create optimized execution environments for different types of tasks using worker queues. Worker queues are a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in your Deployment. For a given worker queue, you can configure the type and size of its workers to determine how much CPU and memory your tasks can consume. You can also configure settings related to worker autoscaling behavior.
```

> By default, all tasks run in a default worker queue that does not require any specification in your code. To enable configurations for a different group of tasks, you can create additional worker queues in the Cloud UI and assign tasks to queues in your DAG code.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, all tasks run in a default worker queue that does not require any additional configuration or code. To enable configurations for a different group of tasks, you can create additional worker queues in the Cloud UI and assign tasks to queues in your DAG code.
```

See the following sections for more details on configuring worker queues.

### Example use case

By configuring multiple worker queues and assigning tasks to these queues based on the requirements of the tasks, you can enhance the performance and throughput of your Deployment. For example, consider the following scenario:

- You are running Task A and Task B in a Deployment on an AWS cluster.
- Task A and Task B are dependent on each other, so they need to run in the same Deployment.
- Task A is a long-running task that uses a lot of CPU and little memory, while Task B is a short-running task that uses minimal amounts of CPU and memory.

> You can assign Task A to a worker queue that is configured to use the `c6i.4xlarge` worker type on AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/c6i/) that's optimized for compute. Then, you can assign Task B to a worker queue that is configured to use the `m5.xlarge` worker type on AWS that is smaller and optimized for general usage.

Author: ```suggestion
You can assign Task A to a worker queue that is configured to use the [`c6i.4xlarge`](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/c6i/) worker type on AWS that's optimized for compute. Then, you can assign Task B to a worker queue that is configured to use the [`m5.xlarge`](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5) worker type on AWS that is smaller and optimized for general usage.
```

After you create an Astro Deployment, you can modify its resource settings to make sure that your tasks have the CPU and memory required to complete successfully.

## Worker queues

> A worker is responsible for executing tasks, which are first scheduled and queued by the scheduler. On Astro, task execution is powered by the [Celery executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/celery.html) with [KEDA](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/the-keda-autoscaler). Each worker is a Kubernetes Pod that is hosted within a Kubernetes node in your Astro cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
A worker is responsible for executing tasks that have been scheduled and queued by the scheduler. On Astro, task execution is powered by the [Celery executor](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/executor/celery.html) with [KEDA](https://www.astronomer.io/blog/the-keda-autoscaler). Each worker is a Kubernetes Pod that is hosted within a Kubernetes node in your Astro cluster.
```

Not all tasks have the same requirements. On Astro, you can create optimized execution environments for different types of tasks using worker queues. Worker queues are a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in your Deployment. For a given worker queue, you can configure the size and type of its workers to determine how much CPU and memory your tasks can consume. You can also use worker queues to configure settings related to worker autoscaling behavior.

By default, all tasks run in a default worker queue that does not require any additional configuration or code. To enable additional worker types or configurations for different groups of tasks, you can create additional worker queues in the Cloud UI and assign tasks to queues in your DAG code.

See the following sections for more details on configuring worker queues.

> ### Example

Author: ```suggestion
### Example configuration
```

- You are running Task A and Task B in a Deployment on an AWS cluster.
- Task A and Task B are dependent on each other, so they need to run in the same Deployment.
- Task A is a long-running task that uses a lot of CPU and little memory, while Task B is a short-running task that uses minimal amounts of CPU and memory.

You can assign Task A to a worker queue that is configured to use the [`c6i.4xlarge`](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/c6i/) worker type that's optimized for compute. Then, you can assign Task B to a worker queue that is configured to use the [`m5.xlarge`](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/m5) worker type that is smaller and optimized for general usage.

### Worker queue settings

Worker queues support the following settings:

- **Name:** The name of your worker queue. Use this name to assign tasks to the worker queue in your DAG code. Worker queue names must consist only of lowercase letters and hyphens. For example, `machine-learning-tasks` or `short-running-tasks`.

> - **Worker Type:** The size and type of workers in the worker queue, defined as a node instance type that is supported by the cloud provider of your cluster. For example, `m5.2xlarge` or `c6i.4xlarge` for a Deployment running on an AWS cluster. A worker’s total available CPU, memory, storage, and GPU is defined by its worker type. Actual worker size is equivalent to the total capacity of the worker type minus Astro’s system overhead. For a list of supported worker types, see the [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#node-instance-type), [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#node-instance-type), and [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#node-instance-type) resource references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Worker Type:** The size and type of workers in the worker queue, defined as a node instance type that is supported by the cloud provider of your cluster. For example, `m5.2xlarge` or `c6i.4xlarge` for a Deployment running on an AWS cluster. A worker’s total available CPU, memory, storage, and GPU is defined by its worker type. Actual worker size is equivalent to the total capacity of the worker type minus Astro’s system overhead.
```

Ok I'm actually thinking we remove this from here since it doesn't make a difference to the user as they're making a decision but then we add a tip at the bottom of this section on this

- **Max Tasks per Worker:** The maximum number of tasks that a single worker can run at a time. If the number of queued and running tasks exceeds this number, a new worker is added to run the remaining tasks. This value is equivalent to [worker concurrency](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#worker-concurrency) in Apache Airflow. It is 16 by default.
- **Worker Count**: The minimum and maximum number of workers that can run at a time.  The number of running workers changes regularly based on Maximum Tasks per Worker and the current number of tasks in a `queued` or `running` state. By default, the minimum number of workers is 1 and the maximum is 10.

> These settings must be set for each worker queue.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These settings must be set for each worker queue.

:::tip

Your organization can enable up to 10 different worker types per cluster. Once a worker type is enabled for an Astro cluster, the worker type becomes available to any Deployment in that cluster and appears in the **Worker Type** menu of the Cloud UI.

To request a new worker type for your cluster, reach out to [Astronomer support](https://support.astronomer.io) or see [Modify a cluster](modify-cluster.md). For a list of supported worker types, see the [AWS](resource-reference-aws.md#node-instance-type), [GCP](resource-reference-gcp.md#node-instance-type), and [Azure](resource-reference-azure.md#node-instance-type) resource references.
:::

```

#### Default worker queue

> Each Deployment requires a `default` worker queue to run tasks. Tasks that are not assigned to a worker queue in your DAG code are executed by workers in the default worker queue. You do not have to assign tasks to the default worker queue in your DAG code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Deployment requires a worker queue named `default` to run tasks. Tasks that are not assigned to a worker queue in your DAG code are executed by workers in the default worker queue. You do not have to assign tasks to the default worker queue in your DAG code.
```

If you don’t change any settings in the default worker queue:

- A maximum of 16 tasks can run at one time per worker. If more than 16 tasks are queued or running, a new worker is added to run the remaining tasks.
- A maximum of 10 workers can run at once, meaning that a maximum of 160 tasks can be in a `running` state at a time. Remaining tasks will stay in a `queued` or `scheduled` state until running tasks complete.

You can change all settings of the default worker queue except for its name.

#### Create a worker queue

Running multiple worker queues improves resource usage efficiency and enables dependent tasks with different computational requirements to coexist on the same Deployment.

1. Log in to the Cloud UI.
2. Select a Deployment.
3. Click **Create Worker Queue**

> 4. Configure the worker queue’s settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Configure the worker queue’s settings. Note that you cannot change the name of a worker queue once it's been created.
```

5. Click **Update Queue**.

#### Assign tasks to a worker queue

By default, all tasks run in the default worker queue. To run tasks on a different worker queue, assign the task to the worker queue in your DAG code.

> To assign a task to a queue, add a `queue` argument to definition of the task in your DAG with the name of the worker queue as set in the Cloud UI. In the following example, all instances of the task run in the `short-running-tasks` queue:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To assign a task to a queue, add a `queue=<worker-queue-name>` argument to the definition of the task in your DAG. The name of the queue in your DAG must be identical to the name of an existing queue in the Deployment as set in the Cloud UI. In the following example, all instances of the task run in the `short-running-tasks` queue:
```

Author: Just cut down some words here but overall kept this the same

```python
feature_engineering = DatabricksSubmitRunOperator(
	task_id='feature_engineering_notebook_task'
	notebook_task={
		'notebook_path': "/Users/{{ var.value.databricks_user }}/feature-eng_census-pred"
	},
	queue='short-running-tasks',
)
```

:::caution

> If a task is assigned to a queue that does not exist or is not referenced properly, the task might get stuck in a `queued` state and fail to execute. Make sure that the name of the queue in your DAG code matches that name of the queue in the Cloud UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a task is assigned to a queue that does not exist or is not referenced properly, the task might get stuck in a `queued` state and fail to execute. Make sure that the name of the queue in your DAG code matches the exact name of the queue in the Cloud UI.
```

Not all tasks have the same requirements. On Astro, you can create optimized execution environments for different types of tasks by using worker queues. Worker queues are a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in your Deployment. For a given worker queue, you can configure the type and size of its workers, which determines how much CPU and memory your tasks can consume. You can also configure settings related to worker autoscaling behavior.

By default, all tasks run in a default worker queue that does not require any specification in your code. To enable configurations for a different group of tasks, you can create additional worker queues in the Cloud UI and assign tasks to queues in your DAG code.

See the following sections for more details on configuring worker queues.

> ### Example use case

Author: What about "Example configuration?" Use case implies that there are use cases where you wouldn't want to configure these resources, and for the most part I think users will want to configure these for any production Deployments.

### Worker queues

A worker queue is a set of configurations that apply to a group of workers in your Deployment. They allow you to create optimized execution environments for different tasks. You can assign tasks to worker queues in your DAG code or run all tasks on a default worker queue.

By configuring multiple worker queues and assigning tasks to these queues based on the work they’re completing, you can fine-tune your Deployment to run tasks without wasting resources. For example, consider the following scenario:

- You are running Task A and Task B in a Deployment on AWS.
- Task A and Task B are dependent on each other, so they need to run in the same Deployment.
- Task A uses a lot of memory and very little CPU, while Task B uses equal amounts of CPU and memory.

You can assign Task A to a worker queue of `r6i.xlarge` instances that’s optimized for memory usage, and you can assign Task B to a worker queue of `m5.large` instances that’s optimized for general usage.

#### Worker queue settings

Worker queues support the following settings:

- **Name:** The name of your worker queue. Use this name to assign tasks to the worker queue in your DAG code.

> - **Worker Type:** The instance type of workers in the worker queue. A worker’s total available CPU, memory, storage, and GPU is defined by the instance type that it runs on. Actual worker size is equivalent to the total capacity of the instance type minus Astro’s system overhead. For a list of total available worker resources for each instance type, see Cloud configuration references (AWS, GCP, Azure).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Worker Type:** The instance type of workers in the worker queue. A worker’s total available CPU, memory, storage, and GPU is defined by the instance type that it runs on. Actual worker size is equivalent to the total capacity of the instance type minus Astro’s system overhead. For a list of total available worker resources for each instance type, see the Cloud configuration references (AWS, GCP, Azure).
```

Should links to the reference docs be provided?

> - **Concurrency:** The maximum number of tasks that can run at once per worker. If the number of queued and running tasks exceeds this number, a new worker spins up to run the remaining tasks. This is equivalent to [worker concurrency](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#worker-concurrency) in Airflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Concurrency:** The maximum number of tasks that a worker can run at a time. If the number of queued and running tasks exceeds this number, a new worker spins up to run the remaining tasks. This is equivalent to [worker concurrency](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/configurations-ref.html#worker-concurrency) in Airflow.
```

- **Min/max** worker: The minimum and maximum number of workers that can run in the pool.  The number of running workers changes regularly based on Maximum Tasks per Worker and the current number of queued and running tasks.

#### Default worker queue

Each Deployment requires a default worker queue to run tasks. If you don’t change any settings in the default worker queue:

> - All tasks in the Deployment run in the `default` worker queue, which uses [how does it determine a default worker type?]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All tasks in the Deployment run in the `default` worker queue, which uses [how does it determine a default worker type?]
```

This comment should be removed prior to publication.

- A maximum of 16 tasks can run at once per worker. If more than 16 tasks are queued or running at once, then a new worker spins up to run the remaining tasks.

> - A maximum of 10 workers can run at once, meaning that your Deployment can handle 160 queued or running tasks at once. Any queued or running tasks beyond 160 can cause scheduling or execution errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A maximum of 10 workers can run at once, meaning that your Deployment can process 160 queued or running tasks at a time. Any queued or running tasks beyond 160 can cause scheduling or execution errors.
```

> You can change all settings of the default worker queue except for its name.

Reviewer 2: This list isn't parallel.

#### Create a Worker Queue

Running multiple worker queues improves resource usage efficiency and enables dependent tasks with different computational requirements to coexist on the same Deployment.

> To create a new worker queue:

Reviewer 2: Remove

> 1. Click **Create Worker Queue**

Reviewer 2: How did I get her? Where am I?

2. Configure the worker queue’s settings.
3. Click **Update Queue**.

#### Assign tasks to a worker queue

By default, all tasks run in the default worker queue. To run tasks on a different worker queue, assign the task to the worker queue in your DAG code.

> To assign a task to a queue, define `queue` in the task’s operator’s settings. For example, all instances of the following task will run in the `short-running-tasks` queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To assign a task to a queue, define `queue` in the task’s operator’s settings. In the following example, all instances of the task run in the `short-running-tasks` queue.
```

```python
feature_engineering = DatabricksSubmitRunOperator(
	task_id='feature_engineering_notebook_task'
	notebook_task={
		'notebook_path': "/Users/{{ var.value.databricks_user }}/feature-eng_census-pred"
	},
	queue=short-running-tasks,
)
```

### Worker autoscaling logic

While your worker queue settings affect the amount of computing power allocated to each worker, the number of workers running on your Deployment at a given time is based on the number of tasks in a queued or running state.

> The maximum number of tasks that a single worker can execute at once is 16. This value is known in Airflow as **worker concurrency**. Worker concurrency is currently a [system-wide setting on Astro](platform-variables.md) that cannot be changed. As soon as there are more than 16 tasks queued or running at any given time, one or more new workers is spun up to execute the additional tasks. The number of workers running on a Deployment at any given time can be calculated by the following expression, where worker Concurrency is 16:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The maximum number of tasks that a single worker can execute at once is 16. This value is known in Airflow as **worker concurrency**. Worker concurrency is currently a [system-wide setting on Astro](platform-variables.md) that cannot be changed. When there are more than 16 tasks queued or running at a time, one or more new workers is spun up to execute the additional tasks. The number of workers running on a Deployment at a time can be calculated by the following expression, where worker Concurrency is 16:
```

1. Log in to the [Cloud UI](https://cloud.astronomer.io) and select a Workspace.
2. Select a Deployment.

> 3. Based on what resource setting you want to change, click one of the following buttons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Based on the resource setting you want to change, click one of the following buttons:
```

    ![Location of all Deployment resource setting buttons](/img/docs/deployment-settings.png)

> 		- To create a new worker queue, click **Add Worker Queue**.
> 		- To change an existing worker queue, click the **Edit** button in the worker queue's table entry.
> 		- To change scheduler resources, click the **Edit** button in the **Scheduler Settings** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		- To change the name or description of the Deployment, click **Edit Details**.
		- To change the settings of an existing worker queue, click the **Edit** button in the corresponding worker queue's entry of the table in the **Worker Queues** section.
		- To change scheduler resources, click the **Edit** button in the **Scheduler Settings** section.
```

Author: The image no longer has an "Edit details" button because I didn't consider that to be a "Deployment resource setting:

Author: Also cutting the sentence about the worker queue name, because that will be evident upon editing or when they create the queue

Reviewer: 👍

1. Log in to the [Cloud UI](https://cloud.astronomer.io) and select a Workspace.
2. Select a Deployment.
3. Based on the resource setting you want to change, click one of the following buttons:

    ![Location of all Deployment resource setting buttons](/img/docs/deployment-settings.png)

> 		- To create a new worker queue, click **Add Worker Queue**.
> 		- To change an existing worker queue, click the **Edit** button next to that worker queue's entry in the table in the **Worker Queues** section.
> 		- To change scheduler resources, click the **Edit** button in the **Scheduler Settings** section.

Author: ```suggestion
    - To create a new worker queue, click **Add Worker Queue**.
    - To change an existing worker queue, click the **Edit** button next to that worker queue's entry in the table in the **Worker Queues** section.
    - To change scheduler resources, click the **Edit** button in the **Scheduler Settings** section.
```

4. Edit the Deployment resource settings. For more information about these settings, review the content in this topic.
5. Click **Update Deployment**.

    The Airflow components of your Deployment automatically restart to apply the updated resource allocations. This action is equivalent to deploying code to your Deployment and does not impact running tasks that have 24 hours to complete before running workers are terminated. See [What happens during a code deploy](deploy-code.md#what-happens-during-a-code-deploy).

> ::: caution

Author: ```suggestion
:::caution
```
